>> Jen Kramer: What do we mean
by CSS Custom Properties?
Anybody wanna think about a definition for
this?
>> Speaker 2: You can create variables or
whatever,?
You can define your own thing in CSS.
>> Jen Kramer: You can define
your own thing in CSS.
Yeah, they're kind of like variables,
but with quirks, and
that's due to inheritance.
So this is the part that concerns
me about CSS Custom Properties.
I think they are the coolest thing ever,
but I understand inheritance and
I understand the cascade.
[LAUGH] And
I know that a lot of people don't.
So this is where the power comes in.
If you can leverage the cascade and
you can leverage inheritance this
stuff becomes amazing, okay?
So you're gonna declare your custom
field within a CSS property.
So the part that's gonna
be most unusual for
you guys that are used to working
with variables, whether it's in SAS,
JavaScript or anywhere else, is the way
that you're gonna declare these variables.
It's a little weird, okay?
Cuz it's still CSS, so
you gotta put it inside of something.
The values are gonna inherit,
but it's CSS inheritance.
Yeah, which means that
there's scoping involved,
depending on where you
declare your variable.
It's gonna drive what gets inherited,
yeah?
We're gonna spend a lot
of time on this today.
And you can use these
things with JavaScript, so
JavaScript can manipulate a CSS variable.
And that's literally all I know about it,
okay?
Cuz I am not a JavaScript person.
So there are articles out there, and I'll
refer you to those articles about how you
can manipulate CSS Custom Properties
with JavaScript.
So here is the can I used, again I took
the screenshot on August 9th, and you can
see here what the support looks like,
in other words none for Internet Explorer.
Sorry, okay?
The other places where it's none is IE,
so basically IE is just the thing, right?
And Blackberry, that's the other one,
and Opera Mini.
Opera Mini tends to not support anything,
it seems like.
So those are your problem areas, okay?
And otherwise it's 92.5%
support on Custom Properties.
When I started talking about this,
I did my first talk about
Custom Properties back in November, and
at that point in time it was at 87%, so
this is growing really, really quickly.
>> Jen Kramer: Okay,
very, very new area here.
So this is the way that we're gonna
wind up declaring our variables,
variables, okay?
Anyone ever seen this selector before,
root?
Yes, you have.
>> Speaker 2: I've written it.
>> Jen Kramer: You've written it?
What do we mean by root?
>> Jen Kramer: I'm looking at a bunch of
programmers who don't know what root is?
>> Speaker 3: The root to the dom.
>> Jen Kramer: Yes,
it's the root of the dom, okay?
Effectively in HTML and CSS,
it's the HTML tag, right?
But as JavaScript developers,
you know that there's actually
a little bit beyond that, right?
So when we say root, we do mean root.
Okay, the very root of the document,
think of that declaration
as global variables, okay?
So now you've scoped your glut
your variables globally, so
here we've got a primary color and
color the primary color cuz that's
I think required by law now right?
And in your in your styling,
you have a primary color.
Here's a gap, okay?
So you can't call them whatever you want,
you're going to start declaring them with
the double dash, that's gonna indicate
that this is a variable, all right?
Then when you refer to it in your code
as you go down here, you're gonna use
the word var, parentheses, and then
call your variable inside of it, okay?
Not difficult,
the syntax is not difficult,
the hard part is the inheritance and
the cascade.
You can do math with it,
as you'll see here in my last example, so
there I am using cap.
So now I'm pulling in a gap with a value
and I'm multiplying it by 5 pixels,
I don't know why I'm doing it but
hey, there it is.
You can declare all kinds of
various things as variables, okay?
So here I've got colors,
widths, URLs, multiple values.
The cubic bezier,
again that's an animation thing, okay?
So all kinds of wild and crazy things.
CSS will do zero error checking for
you just as you've come to expect.
So if you want the say the color
is one rem, you go do that, okay?
The color should not be one rem, but
CSS will be perfectly happy to go on
ahead and run that for you, okay?
So you're going to have to check to
make sure that things make sense.